In this video, we're going to see how to determine if a given linear transformation
is injective or surjective. So let's start with
injective. So remember to test if or to figure out if a map is injective
or not, we want to figure out if different vectors go different places.
So what happens if we end up with two vectors,
T(v) and T(w) being the same?
So note that this is saying because T is linear
that T(v-w) is
equal to the zero vector.
So if different vectors are going to different places, we
should never have something going to the zero vector unless the v and w are the same
thing. In other words, T is going to be
injective exactly when the kernel
only contains the zero vector.
So if we want to determine if our map is injective or not, we proceed as if we're going
to write down a basis for the kernel. We don't have to actually write that down, but we do
have to observe how many things are going to be in it. Right. So the zero vector is
always in the kernel because every linear transformation maps the zero vector to the zero vector.
As soon as we can see that there are more things in the kernel, then we know our map is not
injective. If we see that zero is the only thing in the kernel that we know our
map is injective. So let's look at this example. I have
written down here and given my standard matrix written down there. If we wanted
to find the kernel of this linear transformation, we would think about the system of equations
producing zeros. So we would write down our
matrix going with the system, which is our standard matrix here and find it's reduced row echelon
form. So let's go ahead and
type this in the calculator. You end up with
1 2 0 0;  0 0 1 0;
0 0 0 1.
And now, I have actually done enough work to determine if this map is injective or not.
So the key observation here is that if I was going to write down the solution set, I would
need to know if I have any free variables or not. So if
I am looking at this matrix here, I see a non pivot column
which corresponds to a free variable and that free variable is going to correspond to having
infinitely many things in the solution set. So in this case we know that
we have a non pivot column. So column two
is a non pivot column.
Which tells us that the kernel of T has
infinitely many vectors.
So our map T is not.
injective.
All right, so that tells us if our map is injectiveor not, but we
also want to know if our map is surjective, which is a completely separate
question. So a map is going to be surjective when the image
fills up the entire codomain, in this case R^3. And we
know how to write down a basis for the image of our linear transformation. In this case, we would
take our columns that correspond to the pivot columns. So in this case, the first,
the third and the fourth column here. So I'm not going to write that
down. All right. I'm going to note is the dimension of the image.
So we have three pivot columns, which means I was going to write down three vectors in that basis
so the dimension of the image is three, which is the dimension
of the codomain in this case, R^3.
Let me emphasize here that this was the codomain
And the only three dimensional
subspace of a three dimensional space is the whole thing itself.
So this tells us that the image of T is actually equal
to all of the codomain . So therefore
this map T is surjective.
So we have determined that our map is not injective and it is surjective.
So one important point to note is that these are completely independent kinds of questions. There
are four different things that can happen. Your map can be both injective and surjective. It
could be injective, but not surjective. It could be not injective
and surjective like this one. Or it can be neither injective nor surjective.
So on each one, it's going to be separate things that you need to check.